# Government Webpage Popularity Ranking

This repository contains the government webpage popularity data, code used to process my data, and this README.

## Introduction

I want to explore the most popular government webpages because I personally don’t use many government webpages, but I want to see which ones are the most used by others. In addition, through analyzing which webpages people spend the most time on or click on the most, I can learn about which facets of life people value most or spend the most time on, as well as websites the government should spend more money on or knowledge that should be promoted more to the public. The questions I will explore are: which webpage has had the most visits in the past 30 days? Which webpage has had the most visits but least exits? Through answering these questions, I can tell what aspect of life people value most, as well as which webpage people probably keep open the longest.

## Methods

According to analytics.usa.gov, the data come from a unified Google Analytics account for US federal government agencies known as the Digital Analytics Program, which helps government agencies understand how people find, access, and use government services online. This data provides a window into how people are interacting with the government online. The website provides a link to view the data on Github, and the license on Github says “As a work of the United States Government, this project is in the public domain within the United States” (https://github.com/18F/analytics.usa.gov/blob/master/LICENSE.md), so the public can use this data set.

The dataset contains records about the number of visits in the past 30 days to various government websites, the number of page views on each website, the number of users, pages viewed per session, average session duration, and number of exits.

To find out which webpage has had the most visits in the past 30 days, I created a method that takes in the file as a parameter. I iterated through the first integer in each row, which corresponds to the number of visits, and found the maximum number of visits by comparing the next number to the maximum number of visits up to this current number. To find out which webpage has had the most visits but least exits, I created a method that takes in 4 parameters: the file, the index of the domain, the index of the visits column, and the index of the exits column. I made the index of the domain, visits, and exits columns into parameters because if the data were to change it would be easier to pass in the index of the changed columns instead of changing what I hardcoded. I collected the number of visits and the number of exits for each domain by getting an array for the current line using the split() method and getting the strings at indexes of the visits and exits. I converted the strings I got to integers, subtracted exits from visits, and stored the difference in an Arraylist. I also created another Arraylist that stores the domains at each corresponding index. I then found the maximum number in the differences Arraylist and got the corresponding domain name.

While writing the mostVisitLeastExit method, I couldn’t think of a way to get the number of exits. Since the visits column and the exits column are separated by 2 columns containing doubles, I initially got the number of visits first, then used the scanner to go to nextDouble(), then used nextInt() to get the number of exits. However, that approach wouldn’t work if those two columns contained integers or if there was an added integer column in between the two double columns. In class, the split() method was introduced, and I used the split() method to get an array and get the corresponding values at each index of the array storing the current line. After using the split() method, I had trouble converting a String to an integer, since everything in the csv file is a String, so I used the Integer.parseInt() method introduced in class to solve that problem.  

## Results and Conclusions

The data showed that tools.usps.com was the government webpage that had the most visits in the past 30 days, which means that people probably use and care about delivery the most in their everyday lives. reg.usps.com was the government webpage that had the most visits but the least number of exits, which means that people keep this webpage open a lot and probably need to reference this webpage often. Interestingly, both the most visited webpage and the webpage people kept open the longest were both related to USPS delivery, which shows that people probably care the most about their deliveries and/or the USPS system is not understandable or faulty so people need to spend more time on the website to see what is going on. If I had another data set with the types of government webpages (ie. delivery related, medical related etc), I could also explore questions such as what proportion of the most popular government webpages are related to delivery services.
